The Project Gutenberg EBook of Goat-Feathers, by Ellis Parker Butler

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Goat-Feathers

Author: Ellis Parker Butler

Release Date: March 22, 2009 [EBook #28389]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ASCII

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GOAT-FEATHERS ***




Produced by D Alexander and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)






GOAT-FEATHERS



BY

_Ellis Parker Butler_



BOSTON AND NEW YORK
HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY
_The Riverside Press Cambridge_

COPYRIGHT, 1918, BY THE CROWELL PUBLISHING COMPANY

COPYRIGHT, 1919, BY ELLIS PARKER BUTLER

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED INCLUDING THE RIGHT TO REPRODUCE
THIS BOOK OR PARTS THEREOF IN ANY FORM




G_oat_-F_eathers_




GOAT-FEATHERS


No human being ever tells the whole truth about himself. We seem to
be born liars in that particular, all of us, and I am no different.
I'm starting out now to tell the bitter, agonizing truth about
myself, but before I am through I shall probably be lying at the
rate of a mile a minute and cracking myself up something awful! A
man can tell only so much truth; then he begins to wabble.

The truth is, I ought to be making as much money as Robert W.
Chambers, and winning prizes of honor like Ernest Poole, and I'm
not. I ought to be better known as a humorist than George Ade and
Mark Twain rolled into one, and I'm not. The trouble with me is
that I am always too ready and eager to break away and go gathering
goat-feathers. If it had not been for that I might be a millionaire
or the President of the United States or the leading American
Author, bound in Red Russia leather. I might have been a Set of
Books, like Sir Walter Scott or Dickens or Balzac, and when people
passed my house the natives would say, "No, that isn't the city
hall or the court-house; that's where Butler lives." Of course some
strangers would say, "Butler, the grocer?" but that would be the
ignorant few. The real people would whisper, "Butler, the Author!"
in a sort of subdued awe and remove their hats. Some of them would
pick a blade of grass from my lawn and take it home to hand down to
their children's children as the most treasured family possession.
As it is, I have gathered so many goat-feathers that half the
people introduce me as Ellis Butler Parker and the other half as
Butler Parker Ellis, and if there is a ton of hay growing on my
lawn nobody bothers to pick a pint. My father has to cut it and
rake it away.

Goat-feathers, you understand, are the feathers a man picks and
sticks all over his hide to make himself look like the village
goat. It often takes six days, three hours and eighteen minutes to
gather one goat-feather, and when a man has it and takes it home it
is about as useful and valuable to him as a stone-bruise on the
back of his neck. I have recently spent several days over a month
gathering one goat-feather, and as a reward I was grabbed and
chased after another that ate up two weeks and three days of my
time. Goat-feathers are the distractions, side lines and
deflections that take a man's attention from his own business and
keep him from getting ahead. They are the Greatest Thing in the
World--to make a man look like a goat.

I think I can claim, without fear of dispute, to have gathered more
goat-feathers in a fifty-year career, and to look more like a goat,
than any other man living, and not excepting Pooh Bah, who added
such a pleasing, goat-like character to Gilbert-and-Sullivan's
"Mikado." Pooh Bah, poor amateur! could boast only that he was
First Lord of the Treasury, Lord Chief Justice, Commander-in-Chief,
Lord High Admiral, Master of the Buck Hounds, Groom of the Back
Stairs, Archbishop of Titipu, Lord Mayor, Lord Chamberlain,
Attorney-General, Chancellor of the Exchequer, Privy Purse, Private
Secretary, Lord High Auditor, First Commissioner of Police,
Paymaster General, Judge Ordinary, Master of the Rolls, Secretary
of State for the Home Department, Groom of the Second Floor Front,
and Registrar. I can beat that all to pieces.

When I wake in the morning as President of the Authors' League Fund
I can give some attention to my work as Publicity Manager of the
Liberty Loan Committee while preparing to devote an hour or two to
the Secretaryship of the Armenian Relief and the Treasurership of
the Volunteer Committee for the Fatherless Children of France,
before I consider my duties as Vice-President of the Flushing
Savings and Loan and as Vice-President, Director and Member of the
Discount Committee of the Flushing National Bank. As a Councillor
and Member of the Executive Committee of the Authors' League, and
one of the Membership Committee of the City Club, Governor of the
Tuscarora Club and Publicity Manager for the Flushing Red Cross,
Flushing Red Cross Drive and Queensboro Red Cross Drive I can put
in a few hours of goat-feather gathering. Night may come without my
having to do any real work, but if not I can avoid it and
accumulate a few more goat-feathers as Member of the Book Committee
and Executive Committee of the Queensboro Public Library, Member of
the Queensboro Committee on Training Camp Activities, Executive
Committeeman of the Vigilantes, Authors' Committeeman of the
American Defense Society, and so on for hours and hours and hours.
I am a member of everything but the Mothers' Club of Public School
20, and everything takes time from my legitimate work. I estimate
that in the last twenty years I have gathered twenty thousand
pounds of goat-feathers at a cost of about five dollars a pound,
and the whole lot is worth about twenty cents.

What I marvel at is that I make a living at all. My telephone rings
seven thousand eight hundred and six times a day, and only once in
the last eight years has it been rung by any one who wanted to buy
a story from me. The other eighty-two million times it was rung by
people who wanted me to gather a new crop of goat-feathers.

At one time I moved out to the barn to get away from the telephone.
The result was that I had to come down out of the second story of
the barn, walk across my property, enter the house, and go upstairs
every time the telephone rang. I did this eighty-two times a day,
and then moved back to the house and had an extension telephone put
in my workroom so close to my desk that every time I flexed a
muscle I knocked the 'phone off its table. This made it much
handier for the goat-feather distributers, so they called me up
oftener. They call me before I am out of bed, when I am in the
bathtub, and after I go to bed. Usually they call me to the 'phone
and then tell me to wait a minute until Mr. Jonesky comes. The
favorite times for calling me are when I am in the bathtub, when I
am at meals, and when I am trying to concentrate on my writing.

I am not blaming any one for this. I did not have to rent a
telephone. I could have let people come to the house. A great many
do come to the house. On the average, it takes the person who comes
to the house just one hour to state a proposition that could be put
in a six-word telegram or 'phoned in one minute. The visitor always
begins with a few neat remarks about "Pigs and Pigs," which is not
the name of the story, tells how his grandmother laughed over it
until she swallowed her false teeth, explains that his grandmother
was one of the Tootlecoms of Worcester, but married into the
Blahblah family. About half an hour later the visitor remarks, "I
know you are very busy and I hate to ask you, but----" Then he asks
me to do some little trifle like raising 