Project Gutenberg's The Flag Replaced on Sumter, by William A. Spicer

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Flag Replaced on Sumter
       A Personal Narrative

Author: William A. Spicer

Release Date: December 13, 2007 [EBook #23846]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ISO-8859-1

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE FLAG REPLACED ON SUMTER ***




Produced by K. Nordquist, Linda Cantoni, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)









THE

FLAG REPLACED ON SUMTER.


_A PERSONAL NARRATIVE_

BY

WILLIAM A. SPICER.


READ BEFORE THE

RHODE ISLAND SOLDIERS AND SAILORS
HISTORICAL SOCIETY,

FEBRUARY, 1884.


PROVIDENCE:
PRINTED BY THE PROVIDENCE PRESS COMPANY.
1885.

COPYRIGHT,
1885.


[Illustration: THE ATTACK ON FORT SUMTER IN APRIL, 1861.]




THE FLAG REPLACED ON SUMTER.

       "What's hallowed ground? 'Tis what gives birth
     To sacred thoughts in souls of worth!
       Peace! Independence! Truth!"--_Campbell._


[Illustration]

Immediately upon the election of Abraham Lincoln as President, in
November, 1860, a predetermined plan of secession was entered upon by
the leading public men of the South, on the plea that his election was
dangerous the interests of slavery. In February, 1861, seven of the
slave States having united in the movement, an independent government
was organized, under the name of the Southern Confederacy, and
Jefferson Davis was inaugurated as President with great pomp, at
Montgomery, Alabama; so that on the fourth of March, the day of Mr.
Lincoln's inauguration at Washington, the flag of the United States
was flying at only three points south of the Capital, viz: Fort
Sumter, Fort Pickens, and Key West.

South Carolina naturally led the scheme of disunion, passing the
ordinance of secession on the twentieth of December, 1860, and
immediately proceeding to secure possession of the national property
in the State, particularly the forts in Charleston harbor.

To prevent this, Major Robert Anderson, an able and loyal southern
officer, commanding a small garrison of United States troops in Fort
Moultrie, hastily removed, on the night of the 26th of December, to
Fort Sumter, a much stronger but unfinished fortress in the middle of
the harbor, hoping to maintain his position there till reinforced. But
before this could be effected by President Lincoln, who had plainly
advised Governor Pickens of his intention, a formal demand for the
surrender of the fort was made by General Beauregard, commanding the
rebel forces, which being promptly refused by Major Anderson, the
order to reduce the fort was given by the Confederate government. On
the morning of Friday, the twelfth of April, 1861, at half-past four,
the first shot was fired upon Fort Sumter, which aroused and excited
the nation, and begun the war of the Rebellion. For two days the
assault continued, when after a most gallant defense by the little
garrison of eighty men, Major Anderson was compelled to accept terms
of evacuation. On Sunday afternoon, April 14th, he marched out of the
fort with colors flying and drums beating, saluting the United States
flag, as it was lowered, with fifty guns.

There was great rejoicing in Charleston. Thousands had assembled at
the Battery, excited spectators of the scene. They exultingly beheld
the banner of the Republic lowered, and the flags of South Carolina
and the Southern Confederacy raised defiantly over the ramparts of
Fort Sumter.

Governor Pickens, the bustling and blustering State executive, thus
addressed the populace:

     "We are now one of the Confederate States, and they have
     sent us a brave and scientific officer, to whom the credit
     of this day's triumph is due. We have defeated their twenty
     millions. We have humbled the flag of the United States
     before the Palmetto and Confederate, and so long as I have
     the honor to preside as your chief magistrate, so help me
     God, there is no power on this earth shall ever lower from
     that fortress those flags, unless they be lowered and
     trailed in a sea of blood. I can here say to you it is the
     first time in the history of this country that the stars and
     stripes have been humbled. That flag has never before been
     lowered before any nation on this earth. But to-day it has
     been humbled, and humbled before the glorious little State
     of South Carolina."

But Governor Pickens little dreamed that the discharge of his guns
upon the United States flag at Fort Sumter would awaken such an
outburst of patriotism as immediately followed all over the North,
uniting the people of all classes in a determination to maintain the
majesty of the Union, and vindicate the honor of the flag. How little
he foresaw the mighty sweep and terrible devastation of the pitiless
storm of civil war which now burst over the land, and which never
departed from the soil of South Carolina till every rebel ensign was
"lowered and trailed in a sea of blood;" till slavery, the cause of
the conflict, was forever abolished, and the power of the United
States firmly re-established on land and sea.

Four years had scarcely passed ere he heard the tramp of Sherman's
army sweeping victoriously across the State, and beheld the once proud
and haughty Charleston in possession of the Union legions. As he saw
the starry flag again waving aloft in triumph, he hastened, with
reluctant footsteps, to place himself once more under its protecting
folds, thus renewing, in 1865, his oath of allegiance to the
government whose authority he had defied in 1861!

A few months later, at the State Convention at Columbia, assembled
under the direction of the President of the United States, it is none
other than our _reconstructed_ friend, Ex-Governor Pickens, who rises
amid the ashes of his once beautiful Capital, and offers the following
ordinance:

     "_Resolved_, We, the delegates of the people of the State of
     South Carolina, in general convention met, do ordain, that
     the ordinance [of secession] passed in convention on the
     twentieth of December, 1860, withdrawing this State from the
     Federal Union, be, and the same is hereby repealed. The
     fortunes of war, together with the proclamations of the
     President of the United States and the generals in the
     field commanding, having decided that domestic slavery is
     abolished, that therefore, under the circumstances, we
     acquiesce in said proclamations, and do hereby ordain
     implicit obedience to the Constitution of the United States,
     and all laws made in pursuance thereof."

He had thus at last learned the truth of that ancient and profound
maxim, that "he who would aspire to _govern_, should first learn to
_obey_!"

General Sherman did not pause in his rapid march northward from
Savannah, through the Carolinas, to make any demonstration against
Charleston; he conquered it, in the words of General Robert Anderson,
"by turning his _back_ on it!" His military operations compelled the
evacuation of the city, which was occupied by the Union troops on the
eighteenth of February, 1865. Lieutenant-Colonel A.G. Bennett, of the
Twenty-first United States colored troops, was the first to land with
a small force, while some of the rebel mounted patrols still remained,
applying the torch as they retreated. The Colonel at once addressed
himself to the Mayor: "In the name of the United States government I
demand a surrender of the city, of which you are the executive
officer." The Mayor responded by immediately turning over the Cradle
of Rebellion to its rightful owners. The Colonel then proceeded to the
citadel with his colored troops, two companies of the Fifty-second
Pennsylvania Regiment, and about thirty men of the Third Rhode Island
Heavy Artillery, under Lieutenant-Colonel Ames, and proclaimed martial
law. In his official report he says: "Every officer and soldier
exerted himself to a most willing performance of every allotted duty,
yet I do not deem it invidious for me to make special mention of
Lieutenant John Hackett, Company M, Third Rhode Island Artillery, who
volunteered to go alone to Fort Moultrie, and there raised the flag."
This was a most perilous service, gallantly performed amid the danger
of exploding rebel powder magazines.

It was the beginning of the end. President Lincoln, realizing that the
fall of the Confederacy was near at hand, determined to celebrate the
fourth anniversary of the surrender of Fort Sumter by replanting the
old flag of 1861, with imposing ceremonies, upon the ruins of the
fort, and the following order was accordingly issued:

     GENERAL ORDERS, NO. 50.
       WAR DEPARTMENT, ADJUTANT-GENERAL'S OFFICE, }
         WASHINGTON, MARCH 27, 1865.              }

     ORDERED: _First_, That at the hour of noon, on the 14th day
     of April, 1865, brevet Major-General Anderson will raise and
     plant upon the ruins of Fort Sumter, in Charleston harbor,
     the SAME United States flag which floated over the
     battlements of that fort during the rebel assault, and which
     was lowered and saluted by him, and the small force of his
     command, when the works were evacuated on the 14th of April,
     1861.

     _Second_, That the flag, when raised, be saluted by one
     hundred guns from Fort Sumter, and by a national salute from
     every fort and rebel battery that fired upon Fort Sumter.

     _Third_, That suitable ceremonies be had upon the occasion,
     under the direction of Major-General William T. Sherman,
     whose military operations compelled the rebels to evacuate
     Charleston, or, in his absence, under the charge of
     Major-General Q.A. Gilmore, commanding the Department. Among
     the ceremonies will be the delivery of an address by the
     Rev. Henry Ward Beecher.

     _Fourth_, That the naval forces at Charleston, and their
     commander on that station, be invited to participate in the
     ceremonies of the occasion.

     _Official._

       By order of the President of the United States.
         EDWIN M. STANTON, _Secretary of War_.

     E.D. TOWNSHEND, _Assistant Adjutant-General_.

The steamer "Arago" was officially commissioned to carry to the fort
those who were to take part in the exercises, and the gratifying
announcement was afterwards received in Providence that a second
steamer had been chartered, the "Oceanus," of our Neptune Propeller
Line, to sail from New York for Charleston, on Monday, April 10th, at
noon. Immediately, three Providence boys, two of us comrades in the
Tenth Rhode Island Regiment, fired with the news just received of the
fall of Richmond, made our plans for going to Charleston on the
"Oceanus." We so well succeeded that on the morning of the tenth we
made our appearance on the deck of the steamer, duly armed and
equipped with the necessary papers and outfit.

There was great enthusiasm on board over the news from the seat of
war, not only on account of the recent capture of Richmond and
Petersburg, but because, during the night, the news had flashed over
the wires of the surrender of Lee and the death of the Rebellion. We
thus became the bearers of these glorious tidings to Fort Sumter and
Charleston.

My reception of the news in New York is thus described in my diary:
"Monday, April 10, Astor House. On coming down from my room this
morning, my attention was arrested by the 'big letters' at the head of
the column of the morning paper, bearing the announcement of the
surrender of General Lee and his whole army. It was pretty big news to
take _in_, and contain myself. Passing into the hotel parlors, I
noticed that Broadway was gaily decorated with flags (though the rain
was descending in torrents), and there read in the _Herald_ the
official documents from General Grant, upon which I could hardly
refrain from shouting three cheers! I believe I did give one! While
waiting for breakfast I ventured, in the enthusiasm of the moment, to
seat myself at the piano, and was hard at work on about the only
patriotic tune I could drum, viz: 'Tenting on the old camp ground,'
when a small boy came up with a message from some nice looking young
ladies at the opposite end of the parlor, requesting 'The Star
Spangled Banner,' in honor of the glorious news. Well, I didn't
exactly fall under the piano; but briefly conveying regrets at my
inability to comply, I retired as gracefully as possible."

Promptly at noon we waved our adieus from the deck of the "Oceanus" to
the friends assembled on shore, and steamed slowly down the harbor.
The weather was extremely rainy and foggy, and when hardly three hours
out, we found ourselves aground on Sandy Hook bar. A pilot was
signaled, who brought the report of a heavy storm outside, and after
getting us safely off the sand-spit, he advised our "laying to" till
morning. This was a great disappointment, as there was no time to
lose, and some one impatiently asked, "Can't you take us out this
afternoon, pilot?" "I reckon I can if you all say so," responded the
old salt, "but you'd better lay _here_, to-night!" "Why so, pilot?"
"You gentlemen want to go to Charleston, don't you?" "Why, yes, of
course." "Wall, then, I tell you, you'd better lay _here_ to-night,
for it's goin' to be a werry nasty, dirty night outside." That settled
the matter, and down went the big anchor of the "Oceanus."

Having eaten but sparingly during the day to avoid sea-sickness, and
fully believing that we were firmly anchored for the night, I indulged
in a hearty supper, concluding, as my diary says, "with sardines and
oranges." I had occasion to feel very sorry for this a few hours
later.

A patriotic meeting was held in the cabin during the evening. The
music and addresses were very enjoyable, till suddenly the sound of
hurrying feet was heard overhead, and the news was whispered round
that we were "weighing anchor." Soon we began to feel the
uncomfortable rolling of the steamer. The orator who was then
addressing the meeting, and who had waxed eloquent with his subject,
now provoked considerable merriment by his ungraceful and involuntary
gestures, clutching desperately at a chair, then taking a fresh hold
of the table to steady himself. It well illustrated Demosthenes'
famous rule for oratory, "Action! action! action!" But a more serious
impression quickly prevailed among the audience, that it was high time
to retire, and, like Longfellow's Arabs, they began to "silently steal
away." The chairman of the meeting, Mayor Wood, of Brooklyn, unmindful
of his usual decorum, upon an extra roll of the steamer went over the
back of his chair, and rolled ingloriously upon the floor. He
acknowledged that he had never been so completely floored in his life.

There was another portly gentleman who, in attempting to navigate, was
caught near the cabin door, just behind the knees, by a friendly
chair, and as he was suddenly tilted back into it, remarked somewhat
dryly, "I believe _I'll sit down_!" Going out on deck, I found that
the storm had lifted, the lights of Sandy Hook were far astern, and we
were fairly at sea. From this point of time on Monday evening, when we
_lay_ on deck, (things were getting too _unsteady_ for landsmen to
_stand_,) I omit, out of courtesy to ourselves, any further incidents
of the voyage, and pass on to Thursday morning, which found us sitting
on the forward deck, waiting and watching for the spires of
Charleston. The weather was delightful. As we passed into the warmer
southern climate, the sea became calmer and more transparent, schools
of porpoises played about the steamer, and one enthusiastic individual
insisted that he had seen a whale! but he was set down by one of the
disgruntled passengers as "only a pesky oil speculator." The German
band on board, or rather the brief remnant of it, still kept up what
at the distance of several yards sounded like very dismal music!
Presently some one suggested "lemons and lump sugar," as the right
remedy for any lingering unpleasantness, and we drew lots as to who
should "go below," combat the smells of the cook-room, and purchase
them. The announcement that the chance had fallen on my old friend and
comrade of the Tenth Rhode Island, William Vaughan, was greeted with
roars of laughter. But he got off very much like another fellow
described in Pickwick, who spelled his name with a "double you" and a
"wee," by liberally feeing some one else to go in his place.

About three o'clock in the afternoon came the joyful shout of
"Land-ho!" which quickly filled the deck of the "Oceanus" with a troop
of smiling faces. All gloom now gave way to sanguine expectation. We
could plainly distinguish the light-ship, bearing the suggestive name,
"Rattlesnake Shoals," and knew we were at last off Charleston harbor.
A pilot was presently taken on board, who informed the captain that we
could not go over the bar till sunset. Some one asked him, "Are the
people over there in Charleston loyal now, pilot?" He shook his head
gravely, and was non-committal. "Well, then, we've come down here to
_make_ you loyal, pilot!" Turning his keen eye, which had peered into
many a northeaster, directly upon his interviewer, the old salt
vigorously replied, "You can't make _me_ loyal, for I always _have_
been!" Noble words and truly spoken, as we afterwards found.

The sun was still shining brightly in the western horizon as we
weighed anchor, and with colors flying and whistle sounding, steamed
slowly towards the majestic bay which expands its broad bosom before
the city of Charleston. The pilot, dressed in navy blue, stood at the
window of the pilot-house, guiding the helmsman and announcing the
various points of historic interest.

[Illustration]

Close at hand two buoys marked the spots where the monitors "Keokuk"
and "Weehawken" were sunk; and lashed to a mast-head of the latter,
still visible above the water, was a small American flag floating in
the breeze. But the attention of all was now suddenly arrested by a
more imposing display in the sky. For high above the city the
glorious sunset had painted the western heavens with streaming bars of
red and white and blue, fringed with gold. It was our banner,
stretched out again by a Divine hand, over the recovered city; and all
eyes turned to behold the sight, as the shout went up, "See, the Red,
White and Blue! The Red, White and Blue!" Fort Strong, formerly
called Fort Wagner, on Morris Island, was passed with uncovered heads,
in honor of Colonel Shaw, who fell gallantly leading his colored
regiment to the assault; then Fort Putnam, formerly Battery Gregg, on
Cummings' Point, and on the right Fort Moultrie and Battery Bee, on
Sullivan's Island, were pointed out, till at length the cry rang out,
"Fort Sumter! Fort Sumter!" Battered and crumbled almost to
shapelessness, it rose before us like some vast monster in the centre
of the harbor. As we drew nearer, we could distinguish the sentinels
on the ramparts, whose bayonets glistened in the rays of the setting
sun.

[Illustration: FORT SUMTER IN RUINS.]

For a few moments we contemplated in silence the storied fortress, as
memories of the long and bitter struggle here inaugurated passed in
quick procession before us. But victory had come at last, and
rebellion had perished. As by a common inspiration, all hearts and
voices united in the grand old doxology,

     "Praise God, from whom all blessings flow."

It was our good passport to the city, heard and honored at Fort Sumter
by the rapid dipping of the colors, while the answering strains of
the "Star Spangled Banner" echoed and re-echoed o'er the bay.

Passing rapidly on, we soon arrived within hailing distance of our
blockading squadron, safely riding at anchor. As we gave each ship and
gunboat and monitor, as we passed, the news of Lee's surrender, a
scene of the wildest enthusiasm followed, which quickly spread
throughout the entire fleet. The sailor boys in blue crowded to the
bulwarks, or mounting aloft, manned the yards, climbing even to the
main-tops, and turning swung their caps and rent the air with their
shouts. "Hurrah! hurrah! Lee has surrendered! Lee has surrendered!!"
How welcome the tidings after their arduous service.

     "Sweet after danger's the close of the war."

The shades of night were falling thickly about us, as we left the
fleet astern and came swiftly up to the city, which was shrouded in
darkness. From the midst of a crowd of people gathering on the deck
ahead of us, a squeaky voice piped out, "What's the news?" and a
strong voice gave back the answer:

"Lee has surrendered with his whole army!"

Again the piping voice:

"Have you got Lee?"

And the reply, with no uncertain sound:

"Yes, we've got him this time, sure," followed by an indescribable
medley of southern yelling, cheering and dancing.

Amid the excitement and enthusiasm, the band of the United States
steamer "Blackstone" struck up the "Star Spangled Banner," to which
ours responded with "My country, 'tis of thee." Again from the
"Blackstone," "The Red, White and Blue," followed by the martial notes
of "Hail Columbia" from the "Oceanus" as she was made fast to the
dock. Captain Hunt, of General Hatch's staff, came aboard promptly,
and after exchanging congratulations over the great news, tendered us
during our stay the "freedom of the city." We were not expected to
avail ourselves of this courtesy till morning; a few of us, however,
did get out on southern soil, just to stretch ourselves a bit after
our long sea-faring, but encountering rather a suspicious looking
crowd, we soon returned on board, to await the morrow, the
ever-memorable fourteenth of April, 1865.

The day dawned at length, mild and verdant with the breath of spring,

             "And o'er the bay,
     Slowly, in all his splendors dight,
     The great sun rises to behold the sight."

Turning toward the city we could easily distinguish the long line of
edifices along the Battery, their windows glittering in the yellow
sunshine. Quickly dressing, we set forth on a ramble through the
deserted metropolis. There was plenty of time, as the transports were
not to leave for Fort Sumter till ten o'clock. Vaughan and I sauntered
down East Bay street, among the crumbling and deserted warehouses, to
the Battery. This was a long and straight promenade, with stone
pavement, commanding a fine prospect of the bay and fortifications.
Here, four years before, all was activity and bustle; here the
populace assembled, and sent up their frenzied shouts as the flag of
the Republic was lowered, and the ensign of Rebellion supplanted it
for a season.

How changed the scene! The streets were deserted. The crowds were
scattered and gone forever! The silence of desolation reigned on
every hand, disturbed only by the songs of the summer birds. Not even
a newsboy assailed us with the _Mercury_ or _Courier_, containing an
account of the latest victory over the Yankees. Here, along the
Battery, were many of the finest residences, stately mansions with
broad verandas, which bore the terrible effects of the long
bombardment. Their walls were scarred and rent. The roofs were
crushed, the glass shattered, piles of rubbish and other débris
encumbered the ground, and the grass was growing in the streets. The
siege of the city had steadily and relentlessly continued for five
hundred and eighty-eight days. It was commenced on the twenty-first of
August, 1863, by the opening of the Swamp Angel Battery on Morris
Island, five miles away. On the seventh of September, Fort Wagner and
Battery Gregg were taken, and more guns were trained upon the city
(notably the water battery), compelling the evacuation of the lower
part. During the long siege not less than thirteen thousand shot and
shell were thrown into the city.

We strolled into the garden of one of the deserted mansions, which
still exhibited evidences of taste and culture, even in neglect and
decay. Borders of box lined the graveled walks and encircled beautiful
flower shrubs, or clusters of japonica, of manifold hues; the
mock-orange, the lilac and magnolia tree were blooming luxuriantly,
and grew to a remarkable height. What a contrast to the bare gardens
we had left at home, amid a cold and cheerless storm. We were now in
another zone, in the full bloom of summer. After helping ourselves to
roses in abundance, the largest I had ever seen, we passed on up the
street. Notices like the following were posted on the doors of some of
the houses: "Occupied by permission of the Provost Marshal, the owner
having taken the oath of allegiance to the United States." Similar
cards in the shop windows announced that the occupants had permission
to transact business.

A Charleston lady complained to one of our officers, saying, "_You_
treat us well enough, but _the niggers_ are _dreadful_ sassy. They
don't turn out now when you meet them; they even smoke cigars, and go
right up to a gentleman and ask him for a light!"

[Illustration]

We now began to meet contrabands of all ages and of all sizes, from
the little barefooted piccaninnies and chimney sweeps to the old,
gray-haired uncles and turbaned aunties. While all appeared bubbling
over with joy, yet they were quiet and orderly, greeting us with bows
and courtesies, and a "God bress ye! we're so powerful glad ye've
come!" Said one old negro to another, "Yer mus' try now, an' do as yer
done by, Uncle Rube." "Yeth," said Uncle Reuben, "but de fact am _dis_
chile ain't never been _done by_! Dat's where de shoe pinches!"

We took great pleasure in calling with other friends upon Colonel
Lorenzo Potter, one of the veteran Union citizens, formerly of
Providence. He had been at home only a few weeks, but his family had
remained through the long and dreary siege. Fortunately the shells
from the Union batteries had spared the home of these devoted
loyalists.

I remember a fine fig-tree in his garden, laden with fruit, and my
disappointment at finding it in a green state, "for the time of figs
was not yet." Reluctantly leaving this hospitable family, we made a
hasty tour of several public buildings and banks, which we found in a
sadly _broken_ and ravaged condition. The elaborately carved counters
and wainscoting had been reduced to fragments; the tiled floors and
frescoed walls were plowed up and ruined by exploding shells. In one
of the banks I secured a collection of both Continental and
Confederate notes, the obsolete currency of two centuries. On one of
them I read this curious endorsement: "Payable two years after a
treaty of peace between the Confederate and United States
Governments." But right before me lay the effective protest of the
Union shot and shell against any treaty of peace with armed
rebellion, in the shape of an immense pile of débris,--broken brick
and glass, and charred timbers, the ruins of a once fine and imposing
structure. I was told of an estimable lady of Charleston who, after
investing her all (fully 